Okay, this is a great starting point for a stock prediction algorithm! Let's break this down.

First, I'll cover the factors impacting stock price predictions comprehensively, and then I'll dive into a thorough review of your Python code.

Factors Impacting Stock Price Predictions

Stock prices are influenced by a multitude of interconnected factors. Predicting them accurately is notoriously difficult because markets are complex adaptive systems. Here's a comprehensive breakdown:

I. Fundamental Factors (Company-Specific)

These relate to the intrinsic value and performance of the company. More dominant for long-term predictions.

Earnings & Profitability:

Earnings Per Share (EPS): Actual, estimates, surprises, and growth rate.

Revenue Growth: Top-line performance and market share.

Profit Margins: Gross, operating, net margins – efficiency and pricing power.

Return on Equity (ROE), Return on Assets (ROA), Return on Invested Capital (ROIC): How effectively the company uses shareholder equity and capital.

Financial Health & Stability:

Debt Levels: Debt-to-equity ratio, interest coverage ratio. High debt can be risky.

Cash Flow: Operating, investing, and financing cash flow. Free Cash Flow (FCF) is crucial.

Liquidity: Current ratio, quick ratio – ability to meet short-term obligations.

Valuation Metrics:

Price-to-Earnings (P/E) Ratio: Relative to industry, historical average, and growth (PEG ratio).

Price-to-Book (P/B) Ratio: Useful for companies with significant tangible assets.

Price-to-Sales (P/S) Ratio: Useful for growth companies not yet profitable.

Dividend Yield & Payout Ratio: Important for income-seeking investors.

Management & Governance:

Quality of Management: Track record, strategic vision, capital allocation skills.

Corporate Governance: Shareholder rights, board independence, transparency.

Insider Trading: Significant buying or selling by executives/directors.

Competitive Landscape & Industry Position:

Economic Moat: Sustainable competitive advantages (brand, patents, network effects, cost advantages).

Market Share & Growth Potential: Position within the industry.

Industry Trends: Overall health and growth prospects of the industry.

Regulatory Environment: Impact of government regulations on the industry/company.

Innovation & Future Growth Drivers:

Research & Development (R&D) Spending: Investment in future products/services.

New Products/Services: Potential for market disruption or expansion.

Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A): Potential for synergistic growth or costly integration.

II. Macroeconomic Factors

These are broader economic conditions that affect the overall market and specific sectors.

Interest Rates: Higher rates can make borrowing more expensive for companies and make bonds more attractive relative to stocks.

Inflation: High inflation can erode corporate profits (if costs rise faster than prices) and consumer purchasing power.

Economic Growth (GDP): Strong GDP growth usually correlates with higher corporate profits and stock prices.

Unemployment Rates: Low unemployment generally indicates a strong economy.

Currency Exchange Rates: Affects companies with significant international operations (revenue and cost translation).

Commodity Prices: (e.g., oil, metals) Can significantly impact input costs for many industries.

Geopolitical Events: Wars, political instability, trade disputes can create market uncertainty and volatility.

Government Fiscal & Monetary Policy: Tax changes, government spending, quantitative easing/tightening.

III. Market Sentiment & Behavioral Factors

These relate to the psychology and behavior of investors. More dominant for short-term predictions.

News & Media:

Overall News Sentiment: Positive or negative news flow (what your code tries to capture).

Specific News Events: Earnings announcements, product launches, legal issues.

Social Media Trends: Hype, discussions, and sentiment on platforms like Twitter, Reddit (what your code has a placeholder for).

Analyst Ratings & Price Targets: Upgrades, downgrades, and target changes can influence investor perception.

Investor Sentiment Surveys: (e.g., AAII Sentiment Survey) Gauges bullish/bearish sentiment among retail investors.

Market Volatility (e.g., VIX): "Fear index" – high VIX indicates uncertainty and potential for large price swings.

Flows:

Institutional Buying/Selling: Large fund movements.

Retail Investor Activity: Increased participation can drive certain stocks.

Market Bubbles & Crashes: Driven by herd behavior, speculation, and subsequent panic.

IV. Technical Factors

Based on historical price and volume data, assuming patterns repeat. Often used for short-term timing.

Price Trends: Moving averages (50-day, 200-day), support and resistance levels.

Trading Volume: High volume can confirm a trend or indicate a potential reversal.

Chart Patterns: Head and shoulders, triangles, flags, etc.

Technical Indicators:

Momentum Oscillators: RSI (Relative Strength Index), MACD (Moving Average Convergence Divergence), Stochastic Oscillator.

Volatility Indicators: Bollinger Bands.

V. Other Factors

Liquidity of the Stock: How easily it can be bought or sold without affecting the price.

Market Microstructure: Order book dynamics, high-frequency trading.

Systemic Risk: Risk of collapse of an entire financial system or market.

Black Swan Events: Unpredictable, rare events with severe consequences (e.g., pandemics, major terrorist attacks).

Relevance to Your Time Horizons:

Short-Term (3-6 months): Market sentiment, news flow, social media trends, technical factors, earnings surprises, and short-term economic data releases are often more impactful.

Long-Term (1-5 years): Fundamental factors (company performance, financial health, industry trends, competitive advantages) and long-term macroeconomic trends tend to dominate. Sentiment can still play a role, but fundamentals usually assert themselves over time.

Python Code Review

This is a good, clean start to fetching some alternative data for your model. Here's a thorough review:

Overall:

Clarity & Structure: The code is well-structured into functions with clear purposes.

Type Hinting: Good use of type hints (ticker: str, -> float), which improves readability and helps with static analysis.

Docstrings: Excellent! The docstrings clearly explain what each function does, its parameters, and what it returns.

API Key Management: Using os.getenv for the API key is best practice. The check for a placeholder key is a nice touch for user-friendliness.

fetch_news_sentiment(ticker: str) -> float:

Strengths:

Proper API endpoint usage for Polygon.io.

Good error handling for requests.RequestException.

Handles cases where no results are found or sentiment data is missing within articles.

Averages sentiment scores, which is a reasonable starting approach.

Limits to 50 recent articles, which is good for capturing recent sentiment.

Potential Improvements & Considerations:

Polygon Sentiment Score Range & Meaning:

The docstring states: "Returns a sentiment score between -1 (very negative) and 1 (very positive)."

You then have a comment: # Normalize to -1 to 1 scale if needed (assuming API returns in this range).

Crucial: You must verify what range Polygon.io's article['sentiment']['overall'] actually returns. If it's not already -1 to 1, your current averaging might be skewed or not directly interpretable as intended. If it's, for example, 0 to 1, or some other scale, you'll need to normalize it.

Action: Check Polygon.io documentation for the specific sentiment score range and definition.

Depth of News: 50 articles might be good for very recent sentiment. For a 3-6 month outlook, you might consider if sentiment over a slightly longer period (e.g., last 30 days vs. last 7 days) would be more stable or relevant. This depends on how quickly you believe news sentiment decays in influence.

Weighting of News: Are all 50 articles equally important? Perhaps more recent articles or articles from more reputable sources (if Polygon provides source quality) could be weighted higher. This adds complexity but could improve accuracy.

Specific Ticker Sentiment: Polygon's "Ticker News API with LLM insights" is great. Ensure the sentiment truly reflects the ticker, not just a general market mood in an article that happens to mention the ticker. The API is designed for this, but it's good to be mindful.

API Rate Limits/Costs: For frequent calls or many tickers, be aware of Polygon.io's rate limits and potential costs.

fetch_social_media_trends(ticker: str) -> float:

Strengths:

Clear placeholder status.

Considerations for Implementation:

Data Sources: Twitter (X), Reddit (r/wallstreetbets, specific stock subreddits), StockTwits are common.

APIs: Twitter API has restrictions and costs. Pushshift for Reddit is an option but has its own challenges.

Sentiment Analysis: You'll need an NLP model (e.g., VADER, RoBERTa, or a commercial API) to perform sentiment analysis on collected posts.

Volume vs. Sentiment: Is it the volume of mentions, the sentiment, or a combination that matters?

Spam/Bot Detection: Social media is noisy. Filtering out bots and spam is crucial.

Normalization: Like news sentiment, you'll want to normalize this to a consistent scale (e.g., -1 to 1).

Lag: Social media sentiment can be very short-lived.

calculate_t3i_growth_rates(historical_prices: pd.Series, ticker: str) -> dict:

Strengths:

Clear definition of periods.

Handles cases where historical data might be insufficient for a given period (though the default 1.0 growth is a simplification).

Attempts to combine historical performance with external factors.

Major Areas for Improvement & Critical Considerations:

Base Growth Calculation:

base_growth = current_price / past_price calculates the total growth multiplier over that period. This is a simple historical performance metric.

For very short historical price series (len(historical_prices) <= days), defaulting to base_growth = 1.0 (no growth) might not be ideal. It essentially says "if we don't have data, assume no past growth." This could be misleading. Perhaps return None or raise an error, or use a broader market/sector average if available for that period.

Adjustment Multiplier Logic:

adjustment = 1 + 0.05 * news_sentiment + 0.03 * social_trend

This is the most critical part to refine.

Arbitrary Weights (0.05, 0.03): These weights are "magic numbers." How were they determined? They significantly impact the prediction. These should ideally be derived from backtesting, statistical analysis, or machine learning.

Linear Combination: Assuming a simple linear additive effect of news and social sentiment on a base multiplier of 1 might be too simplistic. The relationship could be non-linear.

Impact Scale: If news_sentiment is 1 (very positive) and social_trend is 1 (very positive), the adjustment is 1 + 0.05 + 0.03 = 1.08. This means an 8% boost. If both are -1, it's 1 - 0.05 - 0.03 = 0.92, an 8% drag. Is this scale appropriate? Does it make sense for all stocks and all market conditions?

Application of Adjustment to All Time Horizons:

growth_rates[period] *= adjustment

You're applying the same adjustment factor (derived from recent news/social sentiment) to all prediction horizons (3m, 6m, 1y, 5y).

This is a significant oversimplification. Recent news sentiment is likely to have a much stronger (and decaying) effect on short-term (3m) predictions than on 5-year predictions. For 5-year predictions, current news sentiment is almost noise compared to long-term fundamentals.

Suggestion: Consider decaying the impact of the sentiment adjustment for longer time horizons or using different types of sentiment/factors for different horizons. For example, long-term sentiment might be derived from aggregated analyst reports over a year, or changes in fundamental outlook.

Nature of "Growth Rate":

The growth_rates are multipliers (e.g., 1.1 means 10% growth from the start of that historical period to the end). When you apply adjustment, you're adjusting this historical multiplier.

A more common approach in financial modeling is to predict future returns (e.g., expected return over the next 3 months) rather than adjusting a past growth rate.

If your goal is to predict future_price = current_price * adjusted_growth_multiplier_for_future_period, then the current approach has a conceptual step missing: how does the adjusted historical growth translate to an expected future growth? Your code implies expected_future_growth_multiplier = historical_growth_multiplier * adjustment. This is a strong assumption.

No Interaction with Other Factors: This model only considers historical price and recent sentiment. As listed above, many other factors (fundamentals, macro, technicals) are at play. A more robust model would incorporate these.

Lack of Backtesting / Validation: How do you know this approach or these weights work? You need a robust backtesting framework to evaluate the predictive power of your model against historical data.

Input historical_prices: The code assumes this pd.Series is readily available and correctly formatted (e.g., daily closing prices, chronologically sorted). The data fetching part for this is not shown but is crucial.

General Code Suggestions:

Redundant Imports: import os and import requests and import pandas as pd are listed twice at the beginning. Remove the duplicates.

Configuration: The weights (0.05, 0.03) and potentially the number of news articles could be made configurable (e.g., passed as parameters or read from a config file) rather than hardcoded.

How to Improve (Conceptual Next Steps for the Algorithm):

Refine Factor Integration:

Time-Horizon Specificity: Use different factors or weight factors differently for short-term vs. long-term predictions. Recent sentiment for short-term, fundamental trends for long-term.

Sophisticated Combination: Move beyond simple linear addition and multiplication. Consider:

Feature Engineering: Create more complex features from raw data (e.g., moving averages of sentiment, sentiment volatility).

Machine Learning: Train a model (e.g., Linear Regression, Gradient Boosting, LSTM for time series) to learn the relationships and weights from data. The features would be your historical price patterns, sentiment scores, and other factors you gather. The target would be the actual future price change.

Expand Data Sources:

Incorporate fundamental data (earnings, P/E, etc.) from APIs like Polygon, Alpha Vantage, IEX Cloud, or yfinance.

Incorporate macroeconomic data (interest rates, GDP) from sources like FRED.

Implement the social media fetching.

Develop a Proper Predictive Model:

Your current code calculates an "adjusted historical growth." A predictive model aims to forecast future price movements.

Define your target variable clearly: e.g., "% price change in 3 months," "will price be higher/lower in 1 year."

Split data into training, validation, and test sets.

Implement Robust Backtesting:

Simulate making predictions on historical data where you know the outcome.

Use metrics like Sharpe Ratio, Sortino Ratio, Max Drawdown, Accuracy (for classification), RMSE/MAE (for regression).

Consider Volatility & Risk: Predictions should ideally come with a confidence interval or risk assessment.

This is a great foundation for feature engineering. The key next step is to think about how these engineered features (like adjusted growth rates or raw sentiment scores) will feed into an actual predictive model and how you'll validate that model's performance.